---
title: Kendo UI Grid
page_title: Kendo UI Grid | Team Efficiency Dashboard Tutorial
description: "Modify the scaffolded code to further customize the Grid's appearance while building the Team Efficiency Dashboard application by using Telerik UI for ASP.NET MVC."
slug: kendouigrid_timeefficiencyapp_aspnetmvc6
position: 5
---

# Kendo UI Grid

In this chapter you will modify the scaffolded Grid code to further customize the Grid's appearance. Additionally, you'll be incorporating the Grid into the Team Efficiency Dashboard's main view.

## Configuring Kendo UI Grid Options

### Overview

As you may have noticed in the scaffolding wizard, the Grid is a versatile component with many options. The options for the Grid are set using the server-side HTML wrapper. Take a close look at the code generated by the Scaffolder in `/Views/Invoices/Index.cshtml`. Below is a breakdown with additional comments of what each configuration method is used for. Also, note that the fluent API chain can be extended to include further options and there is no strict order in which the options are defined.

###### Example

        @(Html.Kendo().Grid<KendoQsBoilerplate.Invoice>() // Kendo UI Grid Wrapper
            // Name, also HTML elements "id" attribute
            .Name("grid")
            // Grid column bindings
            .Columns(columns =>
            {
                columns.Bound(c => c.CustomerName);
                columns.Bound(c => c.OrderDate);
                columns.Bound(c => c.ProductName);
                columns.Bound(c => c.UnitPrice);
                columns.Bound(c => c.Quantity);
                columns.Bound(c => c.Salesperson);
            })
            // Toolbars
            .ToolBar(toolbar => {
                    toolbar.Excel();
                    toolbar.Pdf();
            })
            // Enable Paging
            .Pageable()
            // Enable Sorting
            .Sortable(sortable => {
                sortable.SortMode(GridSortMode.SingleColumn);
            })
            // Disable Scrolling
            .Scrollable(scrollable => scrollable.Enabled(false))
            // Datasource configuration
            .DataSource(dataSource => dataSource
                .Ajax()
                // Read method action and controller
                .Read(read => read.Action("Invoices_Read", "Invoice"))
            )
        )

> **Tip**
>
> If you find the comments above useful, feel free to copy them into your project. Comments are completely valid inside the Fluent API chain.

### Exercise: Modify the Grid's Name Property

**Step 1** Change the Grid's `Name` from `"grid"` to `"EmployeeSales"`. This is an important step since the `Name` property of all UI for MVC wrappers set the `id` attribute of the rendered Kendo UI widget.

**Step 2** Find the `.Name` method and change the value from `"grid"` to `"EmployeeSales"`.

###### Example

	@(Html.Kendo().Grid<KendoQsBoilerplate.Invoice>()
	      .Name("grid")
		  ...
	)

The resulting code should look like the one in the example below.

###### Example

    @(Html.Kendo().Grid<KendoQsBoilerplate.Invoice>()
	      .Name("EmployeeSales")
		  ...
	)

**Step 3** Now add the EmployeeSales grid to the Dashboard page `/Home/Index.cshtml`. To keep things tidy, add the grid to the Dashboard as a child action using `Html.Action` in the `/Home/Index.cshtml` view. This will keep the Grid's view and controller code separate and easy to find.

### Exercise: Add the Grid to the Dashboard

**Step 1** Ensure the application's layout is not repeated. Set the `Layout` of the view to `null`. Skipping this step will result in duplicate scripts which could cause the page to load improperly.

**Step 2** At the top of `/Views/Invoices/Index.cshtml`, add `@{ Layout = null;}`.

The resulting code should be like the one in the example below.

###### Example

	@{ Layout = null;}
    @(Html.Kendo().Grid<KendoQsBoilerplate.Invoice>()
	      .Name("EmployeeSales")
		  ...
	)

**Step 3** Add the grid as a child action. Open `/Home/Index.cshtml`, locate the `<!-- Invoices -->` placeholder, and replace it with the `@Html.Action("Index","Invoice")` child action.

###### Example

	<!-- Invoices -->
    @Html.Ipsum().table(5, 3, "d,t,n", new { @class = "table table-striped table-bordered" })

The resulting code should be like the one in the example below.

###### Example

    <!-- Invoices -->
	@Html.Action("Index","Invoice")

**Step 4** Run the project and visit the dashboard page `/Home/Index` in the browser. Take a moment to interact with the grid's sorting, paging, and exporting features.

**Step 5** Currently, the data in the **Order Date** Grid column is verbose and looks like `Mon Aug 25 1997 00:00:00 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)`. This isn't very user-friendly, let's change that. The Grid's data can easily be formatted by adding the `.Format` property chain to any column. Use the `MM/dd/yyyy` Date Format on the `OrderDate` column using the `.Format` method.

### Exercise: Customize the Order Date Column Formatting

You can keep the application running while performing this exercise.

**Step 1** Open `/Views/Invoice/Index.cshtml` and find the `OrderDate` column property.

###### Example

    columns.Bound(c => c.OrderDate);

**Step 2** Set the `OrderDate` column's `Format` property to `"{0:MM/dd/yyyy}"` to apply the format to the column.

The resulting code should be like the one in the example below.

###### Example

	columns.Bound(c => c.OrderDate).Format("{0:MM/dd/yyyy}");

**Step 3** Refresh the application to see the formatting changes taking place. Notice that the `OrderDate` column is now much easier on the eye.

While interacting with the Grid, you may have noticed that all of the records are being pulled from the database. Don't worry, as we progress through the next several chapters this will change as you learn how to work with Kendo UI and datasources on the client side. First, let's set up some additional UI elements to provide a source for filtering data.

## See Also

Other UI for ASP.NET MVC Quick Start Guide chapters on how to build the Team Efficiency Dashboard application:

* [Getting Up and Running]({% slug gettingupandrunning_timeefficiencyapp_aspnetmvc6 %})
* [Input Controls]({% slug inputcontrols_timeefficiencyapp_aspnetmvc6 %})
* [Scaffolding]({% slug scaffolding_timeefficiencyapp_aspnetmvc6 %})
* [Add and Configure the Kendo UI ListView]({% slug kendouilistview_timeefficiencyapp_aspnetmvc6 %})
* [Manage the Client Side]({% slug clientside_timeefficiencyapp_aspnetmvc6 %})
* [Handle the Kendo UI Datasource]({% slug kendouidatasource_timeefficiencyapp_aspnetmvc6 %})
* [Add and Configure the Kendo UI Charts]({% slug kendouicharts_timeefficiencyapp_aspnetmvc6 %})
* [Make the Application Responsive]({% slug goresponsive_timeefficiencyapp_aspnetmvc6 %})
* [Add and Configure the Kendo UI Themes]({% slug kendouithemes_timeefficiencyapp_aspnetmvc6 %})
